# Hashtabels
---
Hash tables are a data structure in which the address or the index value of the data element is generated from a hash function. That makes accessing the data faster as the index value behaves as a key for the data value. In other words, Hash table stores key-value pairs but the key is generated through a hashing function.
---
-  So the search and insertion function of a data element becomes much faster as the key values themselves become the index of the array which stores the data.

- In Python, the Dictionary data types represent the implementation of hash tables. The Keys in the dictionary satisfy the following requirements.

- The keys of the dictionary are hashable i.e. the are generated by hashing function which generates unique result for each unique value supplied to the hash function.

- The order of data elements in a dictionary is not fixed.

- Accessing Values in Dictionary To access dictionary elements, you can use the familiar square brackets along with the key to obtain its value.

- Updating Dictionary You can update a dictionary by adding a new entry or a key-value pair, modifying an existing entry, or deleting an existing entry

- Delete Dictionary Elements You can either remove individual dictionary elements or clear the entire contents of a dictionary. You can also delete entire dictionary in a single operation.To explicitly remove an entire dictionary, just use the del statement.

---
# Hash Collision
When the hash function generates the same index for multiple keys, there will be a conflict (what value to be stored in that index). This is called a hash collision.
We can resolve the hash collision using one of the following techniques.
Collision resolution by chaining
Open Addressing: Linear/Quadratic Probing and Double Hashing
1. Collision resolution by chaining
In chaining, if a hash function produces the same index for multiple elements, these elements are stored in the same index by using a doubly-linked list.

2. Open Addressing
open addressing doesn't store multiple elements into the same slot. Here, each slot is either filled with a single key or left NIL.

- Linear Probing In linear probing, collision is resolved by checking the next slot.

- Quadratic Probing It works similar to linear probing but the spacing between the slots is increased by using the following relation.

- Double hashing If a collision occurs after applying a hash function h(k), then another hash function is calculated for finding the next slot.
